{\rtf \li720 \fi-720 \sl240 \slmult1 \sa0 \uc0\u8220{}0029-0073.Pdf,\uc0\u8221{} n.d.\
\uc0\u8220{}2018CASAnnualResearchReport.Pdf.\uc0\u8221{} Accessed October 12, 2021. https://live-casact.pantheonsite.io/sites/default/files/2021-02/2018CASAnnualResearchReport.pdf.\
\uc0\u8220{}2019_pc_triangles_presentation_2020-06-05_-_restated.Pdf,\uc0\u8221{} n.d.\
\uc0\u8220{}Actuarial-Exposure-Mgmt-Alesco.Pdf,\uc0\u8221{} n.d.\
\uc0\u8220{}Actuarial-Roles-in-Selection-and-Application-of-Actuarial-Models.Pdf,\uc0\u8221{} n.d.\
Adesina, Olumide Sunday, Remi Julius Dare, and Oludolapo Kehinde Famurewa. \uc0\u8220{}USING R FOR ACTUARIAL ANALYSIS IN VALUATION AND RESERVING,\uc0\u8221{} 2018, 7.\
Alessandro Carrato, Fabio Concina, Markus Gesmann, Dan Murphy, Mario W\uc0\u252{}thrich and. \uc0\u8220{}ChainLadder: Claims Reserving with R,\uc0\u8221{} October 6, 2021. https://cran.rstudio.com/web/packages/ChainLadder/vignettes/ChainLadder.html.\
\uc0\u8220{}A-Method-for-Projecting-Individual-Large-Claims.Pdf,\uc0\u8221{} n.d.\
\uc0\u8220{}AMIS Developing a Data Warehouse for Actuaries.Pdf,\uc0\u8221{} n.d.\
Badounas, Ioannis, and Georgios Pitselis. \uc0\u8220{}Loss Reserving Estimation With Correlated Run-Off Triangles in a Quantile Longitudinal Model.\uc0\u8221{} {\i{}Risks} 8, no. 1 (February 3, 2020): 14. https://doi.org/10.3390/risks8010014.\
Barnett, Glen, and Ben Zehnwirth. \uc0\u8220{}Best Estimates for Reserves,\uc0\u8221{} n.d., 54.\
\uc0\u8220{}Big-Data-and-the-Role-of-the-Actuary.Pdf,\uc0\u8221{} n.d.\
Carrato, Alessandro, Fabio Concina, Markus Gesmann, Dan Murphy, Mario Wuthrich, and Wayne Zhang. \uc0\u8220{}Claims Reserving with R: ChainLadder-0.2.5 Package Vignette,\uc0\u8221{} n.d., 58.\
\uc0\u8220{}ChainLadder.Pdf.\uc0\u8221{} Accessed October 12, 2021. https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/ChainLadder/ChainLadder.pdf.\
Community, An open text authored by the Actuarial. {\i{}Loss Data Analytics}. Accessed October 26, 2021. https://openacttexts.github.io/Loss-Data-Analytics/.\
\uc0\u8220{}DeepTriangle - A Deep Learning Approach to Loss Reserving.Pdf,\uc0\u8221{} n.d.\
\uc0\u8220{}DeepTriangle - A Deep Learning Approach to Loss Reserving.Pdf,\uc0\u8221{} n.d.\
Dutang, Christophe, and Vincent Goulet. \uc0\u8220{}Simulation of Insurance Data with Actuar,\uc0\u8221{} n.d., 14.\
\uc0\u8220{}Ey-Actuarial-Data-Management-Brochure.Pdf,\uc0\u8221{} n.d.\
\uc0\u8220{}Financial-Simulation-Models-in-General-Insurance.Pdf,\uc0\u8221{} n.d.\
Gabrielli, Andrea, and Mario V W\uc0\u252{}thrich. \uc0\u8220{}Individual Claims Simulation Machine: Description of the R Package,\uc0\u8221{} n.d., 3.\
Goldburd, Mark, Anand Khare, Dan Tevet, and Dmitriy Guller. \uc0\u8220{}GENERALIZED LINEAR MODELS FOR INSURANCE RATING Second Edition,\uc0\u8221{} n.d., 122.\
Gross, Chris G. \uc0\u8220{}Individual Claim Development Models and Detailed Actuarial Reserves in Property\uc0\u8208{}Casualty Insurance,\uc0\u8221{} n.d., 70.\
Jong, Piet De, and Gillian Z Heller. \uc0\u8220{}GENERALIZED LINEAR MODELS FOR INSURANCE DATA,\uc0\u8221{} n.d., 208.\
Koissi, Marie-Claire. \uc0\u8220{}Emerging Data Analytics Techniques with Actuarial Applications,\uc0\u8221{} 2019, 60.\
Krumenaker, Michael, and George Bukhbinder. \uc0\u8220{}111-29: Developing Data Marts and Web-Enabled OLAP for Actuarial and Underwriting Analysis.\uc0\u8221{} {\i{}Data Warehousing}, n.d., 7.\
Kuo, Kevin. \uc0\u8220{}DeepTriangle: A Deep Learning Approach to Loss Reserving.\uc0\u8221{} {\i{}Risks} 7, no. 3 (September 16, 2019): 97. https://doi.org/10.3390/risks7030097.\
\uc0\u8212{}\uc0\u8212{}\uc0\u8212{}. \uc0\u8220{}DeepTriangle: A Deep Learning Approach to Loss Reserving.\uc0\u8221{} {\i{}Risks} 7, no. 3 (September 16, 2019): 97. https://doi.org/10.3390/risks7030097.\
Lekhak, Prakash. \uc0\u8220{}Relational Database Design with an Auto Insurance Database Sample,\uc0\u8221{} n.d., 5.\
\uc0\u8220{}Loss Data Analytics,\uc0\u8221{} n.d., 319.\
Murphy, Daniel M. \uc0\u8220{}Unbiased Loss Development Factors,\uc0\u8221{} n.d., 64.\
Narayan, Prakash. \uc0\u8220{}Anatomy of Actuarial Methods of Loss Reserving,\uc0\u8221{} 2010, 23.\
Parodi, Pietro. \uc0\u8220{}Triangle-Free Reserving A Non-Traditional Framework for Estimating Reserves and Reserve Uncertainty \uc0\u8208{} Abstract of the London Discussion.\uc0\u8221{} {\i{}British Actuarial Journal} 19, no. 1 (March 2014): 219\uc0\u8211{}33. https://doi.org/10.1017/S1357321713000354.\
Pentikainen, Teivo, and Jukka Rantala. \uc0\u8220{}A SIMULATION PROCEDURE FOR COMPARING DIFFERENT CLAIMS RESERVING METHODS,\uc0\u8221{} n.d., 26.\
Pettifer, Prepared Alina, and James Pettifer. \uc0\u8220{}A Practical Guide to Commercial Insurance Pricing,\uc0\u8221{} n.d., 41.\
Popelyukhin, Aleksey S. \uc0\u8220{}The Actuarial Process from a Data Management Point of View,\uc0\u8221{} n.d., 11.\
Ritzke, Charles E, Kevin J Pledge, and Neil Raden. \uc0\u8220{}Data Warehousing for Actuaries,\uc0\u8221{} n.d., 21.\
Sajewski, Sarah. \uc0\u8220{}Final 2020 Actuarial Value Calculator Methodology,\uc0\u8221{} n.d., 25.\
\uc0\u8220{}Session_3649_presentation_328_0.Pdf,\uc0\u8221{} n.d.\
Stanard, James N. \uc0\u8220{}A SIMULATION TEST OF PREDICTION ERRORS OF LOSS RESERVE ESTIMATION TECHNIQUES,\uc0\u8221{} n.d., 25.\
Strube, Joseph, and Bryant Russell. \uc0\u8220{}Actuarial Data Management In A High-Volume Transactional Processing Environment,\uc0\u8221{} 2005, 41.\
\uc0\u8220{}Us-Cons-Actuarial-Modernization.Pdf,\uc0\u8221{} n.d.\
Wagh, Yogita S., and Kirtee K. Kamalja. \uc0\u8220{}Modelling Auto Insurance Claims in Singapore.\uc0\u8221{} {\i{}Sri Lankan Journal of Applied Statistics} 18, no. 2 (December 26, 2017): 105. https://doi.org/10.4038/sljastats.v18i2.7957.\
Whitson, Scott. \uc0\u8220{}UNPAID LOSS & ALAE: RANGES AND PERCENTILES,\uc0\u8221{} n.d., 50.\
\uc0\u8220{}WP_Data Warehouse Modernization.Pdf,\uc0\u8221{} n.d.\
}