# \#444: Hugh Jackman on Best Decisions, Daily Routines, the 85% Rule, Favorite Exercises, Mind Training, and Much More

## Metadata

* Author: *The Tim Ferriss Show*
* Full Title: #444: Hugh Jackman on Best Decisions, Daily Routines, the 85% Rule, Favorite Exercises, Mind Training, and Much More
* Category: #Type/Highlight/Podcast
* URL: https://www.airr.io/episode/5efb7749c7fd2b68ce8b8986

## Highlights

* is the great singing is the ones that make you melt When you listen to them seeing when they're breathing in preparing its like vibrating out there relaxes I breathe in Oh, and then there already prevent. So there's some of the little things are use, and I I suspect you're a little similar to make Tim right? The iPhone you work better with 95% rule. I definitely dio I mean, if if I think about the times when I've performed best, it's never when I'm whipping myself extra fast and extra hard with a cat 09 rights because I don't need that No, I don't like going to an opening night like Dio opening night. You feel every like this is happening night. It's gonna be the best. And I just want to go. Hey, chill out, everyone. I prefer to go toe Wednesday matinee six weeks into the run. That's when you're going to see the best show. So the trick is, how can you get there? And Barbara Gino, the 85% rule. Do you know where that came from? I do not. You came from a guy studying Carl Lewis, this princess shirt. He couldn't understand why a guy who is routinely coming last or second last after 40 meters, which traditionally in sprinting, was meant to be where you wanted. You wanted the 1st 40 from the start, how someone like that would always win by 10 yards of the end, and somebody said, Well, he's just a slow start, But he's got a long stride that it up then someone. This guy was studying it for a year. That's friend, coach, and someone gave him. Finally, one of those head on shots. You know, they invented the Olympics, that head on shot where you watched them come down, right, and he watched it over and over again. And he said what he realized Carl Lewis did at the 50 meter mark, 60 made a mark was that he did nothing. His breathing was exactly the same. His form is exactly the same as had been between meters 25 50. Where's everyone else? Starts to push to the end, trying to try love extra harder, he said. Their face would scrunch up, their jaw, would tighten their fists, would start to clinch. Where's Carlos said exactly the same, and then it would just breeze past um so that's where he invented the ([Time 1:25:34](https://www.airr.io/quote/5f372da2a7c7e0949b99a8ef))
  * Note: 85% effort rule
