# \#493: The Random Show — Bitcoin Pros and Cons, 2021 Resolutions, Fave Books, Lucid Dreaming, Couples Therapy, and More

## Metadata

* Author: *The Tim Ferriss Show*
* Full Title: #493: The Random Show — Bitcoin Pros and Cons, 2021 Resolutions, Fave Books, Lucid Dreaming, Couples Therapy, and More
* Category: #Type/Highlight/Podcast
* URL: https://www.airr.io/episode/60073ba1b457c0267dbe6846

## Highlights

* Speaker 0: and stuff. Well, you just look 
  Speaker 1: at personalities online over time, who spent a lot of time on social and they become caricatures of themselves because they have certain behaviors rewarded certain behaviors punished certain behaviors, left un applauded, and they start to warp and bend their behavior to fit the most applause. And they turn into these kind of creepy caricatures. I think that that ends up inevitably bleeding over into their real lives, right? I mean, there, there offscreen lives. And I think that's really something I want to be hyper aware of, which is why I don't have the social on the phone. I'm using these, like workarounds like Onley Paul to post stuff. And I want to kind of hold up a mirror that allows people to look at their own reactions. Also right. So I think that a lot of what I'll put up in 2021 will be Rorschach tests. And for people who don't know that those are the ink blot tests where they would put blots of ink folded piece of paper, show it to someone and say, What do you see? And you know, they might see a murderer. They might see a butterfly. There might be something else, and then that is used is kind of Ah, jumping off point for psycho analysis. And that's not gonna be everything I put up. But I just think that life is too short to take yourself too seriously. And so, first and foremost, it's for me, but doing things that don't seem to have a point, doing things that are beautiful just because I think they're beautiful, they don't need to have some targeted outcome are oi or fill in the blank right. And just to kind of loosen my grip on whatever I think my identity is that's been constructed over such a long period of time. And let's not kid ourselves like identity can be revealed, but it's largely constructed right, and it's just you. I think we get so attached to our labels of what we are and what we aren't what we do and what we don't dio that it's Ah, it's just a I think it's a very socially reinforced trap, that kind of constrains your awareness and sensitivity and openness to the world. So, yeah, more coyote. 
  Speaker 0: That's good. I mean, the world needs, I think, the problem that we've fallen into with social media and part of the reason why I don't like having account there is it just becomes it makes me sad in some sense in that I see it's always the best version of someone's self, like there's never any. If he feels very, very manufacturer, it often times and it's it's like it doesn't feel authentic in the way that it's always about good times. There's never any like any. I guess there has been mawr lately, with some of the protests and some of the stuff that's come out on there. But I mean, people, myself included, tend to put just the best version of yourself on there versus just letting it all hang out, which I guess is what kind of what you're saying in a sense that you're you're just gonna have more fun with it than just trying Thio create the Tim Ferriss image up on on social media. Yeah, and you know, I don't 
  Speaker 1: feel like I've done too much of that I mean, I do. I've very deliberately put out stuff that is true to me that I think could irritate some percentage of my followers just because I want to have some countervailing force against becoming this like dancing sock puppet on the Internet. I do that Teoh not become too attached to social feedback. But you know not to turn this into a discussion of, you know, the social dilemma. But if you are constantly exposed to these technologies like you are completely outgunned, you're just you're completely outgunned by engineers and neuroscientists and research and development teams who have, for all intensive purposes, infinite resource is to turn you into your just getting a little in a skinner box. Yeah, I wanna 
  Speaker 0: keep my love that, like the the AI is gonna look at your feet And like, I think Tim would like this. They're like, Oh, shit! He posted a yellow pony. What does he like now? Oh, damn it. You keep them on their toes. Well, I want 
  Speaker 1: to keep myself guessing too, right? Like I don't Yeah, follow less ([Time 1:53:23](https://www.airr.io/quote/600fd174be59656548dab643))
  * Note: The perils of social media.
