# Ep. 91 —  GREG MCKEOWN on Making Essential Work Effortless

## Metadata

* Author: *Deep Questions with Cal Newport*
* Full Title: Ep. 91 —  GREG MCKEOWN on Making Essential Work Effortless
* Category: #Type/Highlight/Podcast

## Highlights

* Is There a Difference Between Productivity and Objectives?
  Summary:
  productivity and objectives, there's you kind of figur out what you want to do. Behind the objective is like one of the different parts we have in place to execute that objective. And then productivity can come in and say, when do we schedule those parts? There should be less of these things, right? Focus on the important objectives. Don't do too many of these things,. A lot of productivity work on the coke. How do you make sense o organized and schedule, make time for the things you need to do? The piece we were missing is that once you have the objective, the parts that are behind it, like the things you needs to achieve that objective, that's
  Transcript:
  Speaker 2
  No, the way i was explaining this to my wife earlier, es talking bout the interview i was always going to do today is like i often apply way to systematic frameworks everything. That's the way i think. But, ah, if we think about productivity and objectives, there's you kind of figur out what you want to do. These things are really made up of, what's the objective, and then behind the objective is like one of the different parts we have in place to execute that objective. And then productivity can come in and say, when do we schedule those parts? And essentialism helped to figure out there should be less of these things, right? There's less of these. Focus on the important objectives. Don't do too many of these things, and there's a lot of productivity work on the coke. How do you make sense o organized and schedule, make time for the things you need to do? And the piece we were missing is that once you have the objective, the parts that are behind it, like the things you need to achieve that objective, that's way more flexible, way more variable. And there's huge winds there looking for simplicity. And i had been doing some of this in my own life, sort of infamously, like around my department without, without knowing the terminology, like i had always done them on a small scale with classroom management. And this is why the vidiographera example, really resignated with me, because there was always things i would do when i was teaching a class about, you know, i want you to learn material. But the's a lot of diferent ways we might do assignments, like a lot of different formats for the assignments, and what type of assignments they are, and how you hand em in, and how my t as get em and thinking about that latter end, could actually make the goal of helping you learn by giving you assignments and grading them. There's ways to do this that significantly simplifies the moving parts on my on my end, without changing at all the objective of, i want to make sure that you you get a practice material and learn it as a student. And i' look arond at see other professors who, if you didn't think about that piece, if like one of the actual moving parts i'm using to accomplish the subjective, you end up with classes that are taking three x more time. Students art learning morris just you never thought to optemize, like, well, what are the different ways i might actually want to implement or make progress on that objective? And thenjust, it seems to scale to all scales, from small things like my students assignments, to, you know, the very nature of how you're doing your job. Like, what do i really do? I really need to have this job any more as a writer? Do i need to be doing a pot like there's all sorts of major decisions that can make as well. So that' that's my, my overly detailed, probably structure for understanding wha you're doing. But i love it.
  Speaker 1
  I love that analysis, and i thinkit its right on the money. And i i ben having a few thoughts based on our conversation, but one of them is one of the little case studies that came across, i in researching effortless is, and i came across two that were similar enough, in two teck companies, i thought it was valuable to include them both. You could, technically, as a writer, just have chosen one to make the point, but i thought it was significant that two of the great tek pioneers had taken the same approach to two different te situations. So the first and the people they were working with had made the same error. So so this is amazon and apple dealing two different things. I won't try and tell the stories together, but i think they deserve to be told. May be backed back to extrapolate the main point. So the first is, it is hat amazon. There's a technician, h t, has been assigned to simplify the check out process on amazon dot com. And this is like years back. And at the time, people are really weary of buying anything on line. So even if you found a book on emerson that you would actually like to have, ye yer y just a bit, it all seems a bit sketch. And then the process for check out ar gave you lots of opportunities to back out instead of check out. One was, every ok, put in your nameyou type in your name. Click o k. ([Time 0:59:53](https://share.snipd.com/snip/27cb4570-21e1-4bc4-9852-5f1eef3cf153))
