# How To Recover From A Bad Day (TPS374)

## Metadata

* Author: * GTD | Smart Personal Development | Business | Mac*
* Full Title: How To Recover From A Bad Day (TPS374)
* Category: #Type/Highlight/Podcast

## Highlights

* Thinking Time
  Summary:
  i've been working with this person for about two and a half years now. And we originanly starte working together because i was curious about to improve my mental performance. It's the idea of externalizing something as much as we can, instead of keeping it in our heads. We have like a million competing thoughts going on at the same time, and it makes it really difficult to focus and take action.
  Transcript:
  Speaker 2
  i actually learned this from working with my sport psychologist. I've been working with this person for about two and a half years now. And we originanly starte working together because i was curious about to improve my mental performance. And it was an area i've always been very interested in in terms of just personal developmenta having an edge in business, just having an edge in life in general, and just building more self awareness. And so i start working with this person who works with a los like mba teams and baseball teams here in the united states. And what's started off as a kind of like, oh, i want to learn how to be a better leader, a better person, an have a mental edge, be mentally tough, right? Turned into kind of like a really special relation between two people who who want to cenalike, have the best for each other. And so oftentimes a lot of like, business challenges are oftentimes masqueraded as personal challenges. And so one point i was having a personal challenger in my life, and my sycologist said, you know, if if you had to give yourself advice, what would you tell yourself? And i would say, oh, well, if i was in that situation and i couldnot distance myself from it, i would say, this is what i would tell that person, or all the times she might say, you know, if you had a client in that situation that you're in, what would you tell that client? And this goes back to the idea that you mentione it earlier, which oftentimes we have the answers and we know what we need to do, but there's something holding us back from actually preceding and taking action. Hence why i always talk about thinking time. Right? In thinking time, we have an episode on this as well on the pacas, just search for it. And it's the idea that if you set aside time for maybe like 15 to 30 minutes or so, and start thinking about a particular tion or challenge that you have, oftentimes you find yourself coming up with tons of solutions. And there's something in there that you can actually do and take action on to resolve that particular issue that you had in life. But we need to be able to focus and set aside time to actually do it, which most of us don't, because we're just kind of running around and doing stuff, right? We're just so busy when just kind like on the ground. Whereas every now and then we kind of need to zoom out and distance or self, so we can kind of see the forest from the trees, right? And so it's really important for all of us every now and then, as a strategy, to say, he if i'm having a bad day, let me just catch myself in that moment and say, ok, what would tan do in that particular situation? Or what would ronaldo do, if that's your real motol, or who else that you admire, right? And so when you distance yourself like that, and you ask yourself that question for momenst like a third person perspective, you can kind of look at it and say, oh, this is what this person would do. This is what i would do in that situation. And when you have that going on, you sar to realis, oh, actually, it's relatively easy most of the time. Let me go ahead and do that, right? So it's, again, the idea of externalizing something as much as we can, instead of keeping it in our heads. Because when we keep things in our heads for too long, it just gets really confusing. We have like a million competing thoughts going on at the same time, and it makes it really difficult to focus and take action. So the more clearity we can get by externalizing it and kind of distancing ourselves, the much easier it becomes to take action and do something about it. It's
  Speaker 1
  interesting, we likely we mention we have a live stream going in. There's is interesting su conversations where people are sharing their tips of they get out of a bad day. But there's also, like these dual conversations going on about entrip, expansion of colec complexity, disssociated states, but also i o s 15 focus mode. ([Time 0:17:18](https://share.snipd.com/snip/187dfd38-de35-49d0-9b6f-5d0a568e0f8c))
