# Jaime Masters on Focus, Flow, Time Tracking and Nootropics

## Metadata

* Author: *Beyond the To-Do List*
* Full Title: Jaime Masters on Focus, Flow, Time Tracking and Nootropics
* Category: #Type/Highlight/Podcast

## Highlights

* Do You Have a Time Audit?
  Summary:
  One of the first things i do with everybody as a time audit. I have a little thing by my desk to be able to do it too, because i i am all too well aware of the things that i don't like doing. And when i have my clients do this, what's so i opening for them, is they realize how much prap they're doing right and what they shouldn't be doing themselves. But we create a plan of being able to have somebody that is like a right hand in their business, that they can give it to.
  Transcript:
  Speaker 2
  So you just, you just gave me a really good piece of context for that. Again, ideally, one of the things that you do is eliminate doing the things that you don't want to do. And if you're fortunate enough, you have done that by alligating resources for others to do that, delegating them, like we've kind of referred to a little bit here. What are some of the other options? They are to get stuff off your plate yet?
  Speaker 1
  Well, end in that, um, it the video serioes i'll send to you. Also, it also has a time audit. And one of the first things i do with everybody as a time audit. And i do constantly do time on it. I have a little thing by my desk to be able to do it too, because i i am all too well aware of the things that i don't like doing. And it is like pulling teeth now when i do stuff that i don't like to do at all, and i'm like, how can i get rid of this? Who can? Who can i delegate this torit? And so it does help, of course, if you have a team, or if you have the resources, or even just a v a. When you are talking about the analytic stuff, i'm a geek, but i hate doing analytics also, and i do do it. I have a capii sheet that somebody else's up date all i look at it on monday. So so to me, it just depends on what those lists are. So i would first do a time audit so you can actually start to identify what is in your strength and what you absolutely hate doing and what you actually enjoy. And because il, yes, it's not like i do everything that's perfect all the time, and i'm super happy sunshine, and there's nothing that ii don't necessarily want to do a but it, to me, also is the attitude that i go into it on, right? So if it is something where it's k pis and i shuld have to grab it, usually i either have a plan to delegate it later, so i know that it's coming, right? So i try to make a process or make it more efficient, or do something that makes more progress, so i feel like i'm getting somewhere a, so it doesn't feel as crappy. Also, because progress is a mentre of mine, right? As long as i can keep sort of getting a itl bit better, it makes those annoying tasks a little bit easier. But doing that time audit will just help you actually visually see, and i'm very visual, see the things that yu're actually doing and not doing. And when i have my clients do this, what's so i opening for them, is they realize how much prap they're doing right and what they shouldn't be doing themselves. Which, of course, highlights the annoyance that they're doing it, if they don't have some one to give it to. But we create a plan of being able to have somebody that is like a right hand in their business, that they can give it to, a that excitement in creating the process for them, potentially in the future, especiall, if they have to hire someone, is is fun. So it can sort of turn that boring, crappy task on its head a little bit, so you can actually be excited that you won't have to do it one day. ([Time 0:11:58](https://share.snipd.com/snip/afef2f78-66a1-45e3-ad50-c044c8f6efba))
