# Limit Your Options By Limiting Your Obligations

## Metadata

* Author: *Developer Tea*
* Full Title: Limit Your Options By Limiting Your Obligations
* Category: #Type/Highlight/Podcast

## Highlights

* Taking Control of Your Calendar
  Summary:
  The goal of this kind of elimination is to give you time to spend on the things that you really care about spending that time on. So one source of elimination, or limiting your options, and it may not sound like options initially, but iis simply to take control of your own calendar. If you have seven different things happening in your day, or ten different things happening every day, you're splitting a lot of your otherwise a high powered focus time into so many different places. And see what you can do to close the gap between your ideal calendar and your existing calendaro here's the important thing: Do your best to make the blocks as large as you can.
  Transcript:
  Speaker 1
  And you know, part of this automation would be, you know, eating the same thing for lunch every day, or wearing the same outfit every day, having multiple the same shirt so that you didn't have to make a decision about what you were going to wear for the day. And while i'm not here to demonize any of these practices, that's not really what we're talking about when we talk about limiting your options. Instead, i want to talk about largera decisions that you're making, or larger areas that are made up by singular habits. In other words, something that you do over and over and over that isn't a small thing like picking your clothes out. And just to expound a little bit moren why we aren't going too focus in on those small decisions. Sometimes those small decisions are a meaningfully positive part of your life. You might enjoy the variability in food, for example. And my goal on this show is not to create the most stream lined, agrithmically efficient version of you. And hopefully you can understand that the goal of this kind of elimination is to give you time to spend on the things that you really care about spending that time on. So one source of elimination, or limiting your options, and it may not sound like options initially, but iis simply to take control of your own calendar. If you can eliminate the ability to even invite you to things via a calendar invite. One thing that happens very often in the work place is meeting invites show up on your calendar before you ever even hear about them. And while some of these are meaningful and and important, very often a conversation could be had that would eliminate this need for meeting showing up on your calendar. So whatever it means to you, take control of calendar. And there's a couple of ways that you might do this. One is, of course, already mentioned, not allowing other people to make events on your calendar. You can make those events. You can accept those events. Maybe another way you can take control of your calendar is to start by creating a brand new blank calendar. And the whole point here is to create your ideal week, ignore all your existing meetings. What would your ideal week look like? Now ask yourself, what is the difference between this and what i think i have to do my obligatory calendar, the one that already exists, that i didn't even necessarily i didn't really create it. Other people influenced it, and it cind of evolved accidentally over time. And see what you can do to close the gap between your ideal calendar and your existing calendaro here's the important thing, thend the blocks on your calendar. Do your best to make the blocks as large as you can. This is a very simple huristic, do your best to make the blocks as large as you can on your calendar. In other words, have larger blocked times for focus. If you have seven different things happening in your day, or ten different things happening every day, you're splitting a lot of your otherwise a high powered focus time into so many different places. ([Time 0:05:15](https://share.snipd.com/snip/a2c31878-4922-4802-a064-90bfa94759b6))
