# The business model of open source

## Metadata

* Author: *The Changelog: Software Development, Open Source*
* Full Title: The business model of open source
* Category: #Type/Highlight/Podcast

## Highlights

* Red Hat Enterprise Lennox
  Summary:
  "If you want red hat enterprise lennox, there's only one way to get it, and that's pay red hat money," he says. "You hear engineers all the time be like, i would never pay for that stuff... What a garbage thing." He adds: "I believe the red hot model is better because what you get is all the upside of open source"
  Transcript:
  Speaker 1
  then we're going to say that that supply chain and all the pieces and components that make up that thing, that's my product. That's what you pay me for. And by doing that, they essentially re invent the proprietary business model. Because if you want red hat enterprise lennox, there's only one way to get it, and that's pay red hat money. Now, you could run centos all day, you could run whatever else you would want to do, feel free. But what it's not is red hat. And so then you have to ask yourself questions like, well, do i trust to the supply chain? How do i know? Who do i call if there's a problem? What if there's a security vulnerability and the guy who does the security vulnerability patches in centos is on vacation, and they forgot to give somebody else the keys to release the software? What happens then? What if i have a kernel bug in my high frequency trading systems. How do i feel about that now? And in all those cases, that tends to swing you right back to the proprietary one, right? And that's why people pay for it. And you hear engineers all the time be like, i would never pay for that stuff. What a garbage thing. Softwares free. Just down ler it off the internet. Do what you and like, that's cause they're engineers and they're talking about softwhere thydon't talk about products. And so, yes, i believe the red hot model is better, because what you get is all the upside of open source. You get all of that community building, you get all of that good juice, you get all of that, like, human goodness that comes from doing it that way. And then you also get basically the exact same upsides of a proprietary business, which is, if i create you, i charge you for it. And and that's the deal. And it simplifies everything. Every other variation is this convoluted model that really only its mother could love. If you like, mapped out open corps business models on paper. It's insane, but that's what you would do. It's nuts. You would never do it to yourself. On purpose, right? And so now we're seeing a lot of the, like, commercial open source stuff, like cockroach or elastic or those things. They're not even open source any more. They're just proprietary software. Again, what they're doing is re inventing the proprietary business model. But then they're also saying, well, but you can look at the source code, like, maybe you could fix a bug on my behalf. That, to me, is just like, who cares? You took all the human goodness part away from it. You showed me the source code, but why do i give it? What's in it for me? Nothing. Which doesn't mean your product is bad, cause i pay money for software all the time. I like paying money for software. I got no problem paying you money for good software. But, like, it's not a community. It's users. It's a community, the way that like, excell has a community, not a community, the way that like lennox or word press is a community,
  Speaker 2
  right? ([Time 0:30:37](https://share.snipd.com/snip/87d74dc9-7eaa-476f-a4c0-4c81b98e22c2))
