## Metadata
* URL: [https://hub.packtpub.com/write-effective-stored-procedures-postgresql/](https://hub.packtpub.com/write-effective-stored-procedures-postgresql/)
* Author: [[Amey Varangaonkar -  - 12:00]]
* Publisher: [[hub.packtpub.com]]
* Published Date: 2017-12-12

## Highlights
* When it comes to stored procedures, PostgreSQL differs quite significantly from other database systems. Most database engines force you to use a certain programming language to write server-side code. Microsoft SQL Server offers Transact-SQL while Oracle encourages you to use PL/SQL. PostgreSQL does not force you to use a certain language but allows you to decide on what you know best and what you like best.
* The reason PostgreSQL is so flexible is actually quite interesting too in a historical sense. Many years ago, one of the most well-known PostgreSQL developers (Jan Wieck), who had written countless patches back in its early days, came up with the idea of using TCL as the server-side programming language. The trouble was simple—nobody wanted to use TCL and nobody wanted to have this stuff in the database engine. The solution to the problem was to make the language interface so flexible that basically any language can be integrated with PostgreSQL easily. Then, the CREATE LANGUAGE clause was born:
* How exactly does PostgreSQL handle languages? If you take a look at the syntax of the CREATE LANGUAGE clause, you will see a couple of keywords:
* HANDLER: This function is actually the glue between PostgreSQL and any external language you want to use. It is in charge of mapping PostgreSQL data structures to whatever is needed by the language and helps to pass the code around.
* VALIDATOR: This is the policeman of the infrastructure. If it is available, it will be in charge of delivering tasty syntax errors to the end user. Many languages are able to parse the code before actually executing it. PostgreSQL can use that and tell you whether a function is correct or not when you create it. Unfortunately, not all languages can do this, so in some cases, you will still be left with problems showing up at runtime.
* INLINE: If it is present, PostgreSQL will be able to run anonymous code blocks in this function.
* The anatomy of a stored procedure Before actually digging into a specific language, I want to talk a bit about the anatomy of a typical stored procedure.
* The first thing you can see is that the procedure is written in SQL. PostgreSQL has to know which language we are using, so we have to specify that in the definition. Note that the code of the function is passed to PostgreSQL as a string (‘). That is somewhat noteworthy because it allows a function to become a black box to the execution machinery. In other database engines, the code of the function is not a string but is directly attached to the statement. This simple abstraction layer is what gives the PostgreSQL function manager all its power.
* Inside the string, you can basically use all that the programming language of your choice has to offer. In my example, I am simply adding up two numbers passed to the function. For this example, two integer variables are in use. The important part here is that PostgreSQL provides you with function overloading. In other words, the mysum(int, int) function is not the same as the mysum(int8, int8) function. PostgreSQL sees these things as two distinct functions. Function overloading is a nice feature; however, you have to be very careful not to accidentally deploy too many functions if your parameter list happens to change from time to time. Always make sure that functions that are not needed anymore are really deleted.
* The CREATE OR REPLACE FUNCTION clause will not change the parameter list. You can, therefore, use it only if the signature does not change. It will either error out or simply deploy a new function.Let’s
* Introducing dollar quoting Passing code to PostgreSQL as a string is very flexible. However, using single quotes can be an issue. In many programming languages, single quotes show up frequently. To be able to use quotes, people have to escape them when passing the string to PostgreSQL. For many years this has been the standard procedure.
* The solution to the problem of quoting strings is called dollar quoting. Instead of using quotes to start and end strings, you can simple use $$. Currently, I am only aware of two languages that have assigned a meaning to $$. In Perl as well as in bash scripts, $$ represents the process ID. To overcome even this little obstacle, you can use $ almost anything $ to start and end the string.
* All this flexibility allows you to really overcome the problem of quoting once and for all. As long as the start string and the end string match, there won’t be any problems left.
* Making use of anonymous code blocks So far, you have learned to write the most simplistic stored procedures possible, and you have learned to execute code. However, there is more to code execution than just full-blown stored procedures. In addition to full-blown procedures, PostgreSQL allows the use of anonymous code blocks. The idea is to run code that is needed only once. This kind of code execution is especially useful to deal with administrative tasks. Anonymous code blocks don’t take parameters and are not permanently stored in the database as they don’t have a name anyway.
* Using functions and transactions As you know, everything that PostgreSQL exposes in user land is a transaction. The same, of course, applies if you are writing stored procedures. The procedure is always part of the transaction you are in. It is not autonomous—it is just like an operator or any other operation.
* All three function calls happen in the same transaction. This is important to understand because it implies that you cannot do too much transactional flow control inside a function. Suppose the second function call commits. What happens in such a case anyway? It cannot work.
* Start a function to look up secret data 2. Add a log line to the document that somebody has modified this important secret data 3. Commit the log line but roll back the change 4. You still want to know that somebody attempted to change data
* To solve problems like this one, autonomous transactions can be used. The idea is to be able to commit a transaction inside the main transaction independently. In this case, the entry in the log table will prevail while the change will be rolled back.
* As of PostgreSQL 9.6, autonomous transactions are not happening. However, I have already seen patches floating around that implement this feature. We will see when these features make it to the core.